---
author: Bloomberg Podcasts
date: '2026-01-05'
guest: ''
layout: post.njk
source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BxYyaR8p8CY
speaker: Bloomberg Podcasts
tags:
  - supply-chain
  - inflation
  - tariffs
  - economic-policy
  - global-economy
title: 联邦储备银行研究会议揭秘：经济学研究如何影响政策制定
summary: 本文深入探讨了波士顿联邦储备银行年度研究会议的运作机制，揭示了经济学家如何通过研究应对全球经济格局变化（如关税、地缘政治风险、供应链冲击和通货膨胀）。文章详细介绍了会议的论文展示、讨论人制度以及学术界在政策相关研究与期刊发表之间面临的内在张力，最终阐明了研究成果如何渗透并影响实际政策制定。
insight: ''
draft: true
series: ''
category: macro-economy
area: geopolitics
project: []
people:
  - Shbnam Kmley Oscin
  - Tomaso Monichelli
  - Paul Antress
companies_orgs:
  - Federal Reserve Bank of Boston
  - Federal Reserve
products_models: []
media_books: []
status: evergreen
---
### 联邦储备银行研究会议的运作与挑战

波士顿联邦储备银行（Federal Reserve Bank of Boston）第69届年度旗舰研究会议，以“美国经济在全球变局中的地位”为主题，聚焦关税、地缘政治紧张、产业政策及人工智能等因素如何重塑美国经济增长、通货膨胀和整体金融体系。会议沿袭了中央银行研究会议的经典模式：经济学家和研究人员受邀撰写论文，并由指定的**讨论人**（Discussant: 负责解读并批判性评估论文的专家）进行公开评议，同时听众也有机会提问或发表见解。

在这样的专业场合，研究人员面临着巨大的心理压力。波士顿联储高级经济学家**Omar Barbiero**坦言，最糟糕的情况莫过于在数据上出现明显缺陷却试图隐瞒，这会损害学术界赖以生存的信任基础。会议组织者、波士顿联储研究部主任**Egon Sakryek**指出，区域联储的研究工作具有明确的政策导向，旨在为**Susan Collins**（波士顿联储主席兼首席执行官）等决策者提供建议，并为联邦公开市场委员会（FOMC）会议和公共活动做准备。然而，当前全球秩序正经历巨变，旧有的全球化和贸易整合模式已不再适用，研究人员面临缺乏理论框架来理解这些变化的挑战，这使得政策建议的制定异常艰难。因此，本次会议旨在提供一个更易理解、跨学科且与政策高度相关的交流平台，鼓励思想碰撞，而非仅仅追求学术期刊所需的纯技术性成果。

<details>
<summary>Original English Source</summary>

Bloomberg audio studios podcasts radio news. Okay. So thank you all. The next paper is going presented by Omar Barbiero. US firms exposure to import tariffs a comparison of the 2018 and 2025 episodes. Can I ask a personal question? 25 minutes. when you present a paper like this at a research conference like this Boston Fed one do you get nervous and then I guess adjacent to that what's the best outcome for you when you present the paper and what's the sort of nightmare scenario would it be someone like finding some fundamental error in the methodology and like standing up in the middle of the conference and being like there's a serious problem here yeah I mean many many nightmare scenarios Sorry, I was just clicking randomly and then it went. Okay. All right. I would say the worst thing that can happen is that you just say something wrong that sounds dishonest almost like you're trying to hide something like there's clearly a data flaw and then you don't highlight it or you don't you say in public, "No, no, no, this is not a problem." And everybody knows that no, it's it's a problem. kind of that that's I think the profession is built on trust and if you if you lose that trust it's it's it's quite bad. That's Omar Barbierro, a senior economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. He's getting ready to stand up in front of a room full of other economists, journalists, academics and his employer and present a research paper tracking the exposure of US businesses to import tariffs. This is a paper written jointly with Slavic Hillary and Alvaro who are there. There happen to be in the room our excellent research assistants Sophie and Lilia also who helped us with this with this paper. It's we wrote it for the conference is still quite preliminary and therefore we really value your your comments on this. But how many individual pieces of data would you say were involved in this particular study? Okay, product code they were they were around 400,000 I would say and then you have to multiply that by many different countries and so you have to keep track of that matrix. the supply chain data set was also quite fun because it's kind of a network of companies and it it gets big very very fast and you have to track it over time I have to say I mean we have excellent I mean I have I have excellent co-authors we have excellent research assistant we have excellent computing power thank god I can can help us with that and I don't know I I hundreds of thousands millions I ah Yes, millions. We are at the Boston Fed's annual flagship research conference. This is the 69th year of the event and the theme for 2025 is quote the US economy in a changing global landscape. So focusing on how things like tariffs, geopolitical tensions, industrial policy, AI, etc. are reshaping US growth, inflation, and the overall financial system. Clearly, that is a very rich vein to mine for research. And the format is a classic central bank research conference. Economists and other researchers are invited to write a paper for the event. They're assigned an official discussant and then they publicly present to a room full of their peers while the audience gets a chance to ask questions or sometimes critique. Yeah. You say it's a classic central bank research conference, but we've never actually been to one, I don't think. Right. It felt like a totally new environment. Yeah, it's true. We have gone to Jackson Hole for the past few years, which is probably the most famous Fed research conference, but it's famous because the Fed chair usually makes a speech and that gets all the attention. We've never actually been in the room at Jackson Hole where they discuss the research papers being presented because the Fed only allows a certain number of journalists into the room. The room. The room. The room. Also, I think it's unfair Kansas City Fed gets to hold their conference in the most beautiful place on earth instead of Kansas City in the middle of August. And then the Boston Fed, I mean, it's their choice, but the Boston Fed has theirs in Boston, which is lovely. We both had a great time. But November it it was very cold. Well, the upshot is that this time we were actually in the proverbial room. So for the first time we got to really experience and learn what an economic research conference actually is. Yeah, this is actually very key because if you sort of like wonder so okay Jerome Paul says something about you know the expected relationship between tariffs and inflationary but where did these ideas come from? Where are these assertions, predictions and so forth? It comes from academic research. It comes from the research backing that up. These conferences are where the macro ideas sort of actually collide with real world data. Yeah. Another way of thinking about it, it is where the first serious drafts of tomorrow's policy debates are aired. And we're going to give you a front row seat to experience what those initial drafts and debates are actually like. Welcome to the Boston Fed's 69th annual flagship economic conference. When you do research at the regional bank, at the board or at the BIS, you do policy. By policy, we mean, you know, you advise your principles. In our case, that's Susan Collins, the president and CEO of the Boston Fed. preparations for the FOMC meeting for public engagements. That is Egon Sakryek. He's director of the research department at the Boston Fed and he's the one who actually puts this event together and he's Omar's boss. Yeah. And he's Omar's boss, right? He also gets to choose the broad theme of the conference. We've lived in a particular global order, rulesbased, international system, globalizations, trade integrations. We just took those things for granted for decades and we're now grappling with monumental change and we lack models. We lack theoretical frameworks to understand these changes. You you've heard many debates about this data is no good. This is the sausage. Don't eat it. Right? And how does one go about it? So I think it's just it's just really I mean it's an exciting time for researchers because we have great questions. But I think it also underscores of just how little we really know and and and how challenging it is then to to make policy recommendations in the in this in the period of such change. You know the way the conference a conference like that comes together is you know we sit together my my my team of researchers we we try to pick a topic that would obviously be timely relevant to policy makers. We confer with Susan and then so forth. We look you know and so forth. So once we once we kind of zero in on what the topic is, we then have to identify the contributors to this. We have a certain idea of what we want different sessions to be. Then we get either academics or you know contributors to write papers for this. But you know academics researchers write what they want to write. So sometimes there's a bit of a you know say say you know gentlemanlike distance between the blurp and the ultimate paper that gets written but that's all right we've always seen this this is very very standard and you know the idea is then is to the discussence the role of a discussant then is to kind of bring that paper and provide some context and you know try to try to you know fit it into the general theme. So this particular conference the theme has changed right and one of the things we keep saying but I think is true is we are living through capital age history here we have the tariffs from the Trump administration the reversal of globalization new geopolitical risks AI all of it right and we're also still trying to figure out stuff like what happened in relatively recent years why did inflation actually spike during the pandemic we're also in this new era of industrial policy and we're trying to figure out what that means for the economy if we actually want to do the stuff like make semiconductors or build small modular nuclear reactors, we have to have some idea of where we're going and and we try to really keep it, you know, I would say somewhat more accessible. I would say a bit interdisciplinary. We try to reach a bit broader audience is somewhat atypical conference. You know, your typical economic research conference would feature slide after slide of equations, graphs. Sorry, I'm laughing slightly because I saw some equations this morning and the speaker is like oh well as you can see from this slide and I'm thinking I cannot see no idea. Right. Right. So you know so this is I would say this is very light on this. If you you know this is super light on this and so forth. We we urge authors to try to write something that's more I would say policy relevant that that that touches that can be communicated and stuff that rather than very very technical pieces you know that is what the academic journals tend to specialize hopefully it sparks it sparks an idea it sparks a new paper you know it says ah you know what this is an interesting result but I have maybe better data to do that so let me actually or there was there was a testable implication that somebody brought up let me see if I can flesh that out because I think I can provide some that's how knowledge and conferences you know advances it's a very organic a bit of a messy type of affair and you know to be honest many times don't things don't they don't pan out you know I have files and folders full of research ideas that you know never went anywhere but that but you try

</details>

### 全球网络视角下的美国经济脆弱性

布朗大学经济学教授**Shbnam Kmley Oscin**在其题为《全球网络、风险与美国经济》（Global Networks, Risks, and the US Economy）的论文中，挑战了传统宏观开放经济学对美国经济的看法。传统观点认为，由于美国贸易份额较低（出口占GDP的10%，进口占14%）、美元主导地位以及深厚的金融市场，加上美联储作为全球最后贷款人的角色，美国对全球风险的敞口有限。

然而，Shbnam的研究通过全面考量全球**贸易网络**（Trade Networks: 直接与供应链相关，如疫情期间的冲击揭示了其脆弱性）、**生产网络**（Production Networks: 产品在不同国家组装、设计、制造，零部件和知识来自全球各地）和**金融网络**（Financial Networks: 投资者跨国投资公司，供应链由不同国家的投资者提供资金），揭示了美国经济对全球冲击和风险的实际脆弱性。她强调，尽管美国在总量上可能不显示出巨大的进出口额，但通过这些复杂的网络，美国经济存在着不可忽视的间接风险敞口。波士顿联储首席经济学家**Aaron Flaugh**作为该论文的讨论人，进一步强调了这项研究对政策制定的重要意义。讨论人的核心职责是为更广泛的受众解读和批判性地评估论文，提炼关键要点，并提供建设性意见。

<details>
<summary>Original English Source</summary>

and if you want to get a sense of that process and the policy implications of some of this research. Take a listen to the first paper presented at the conference. It's by Shbnam Kmley Oscin. She's the Shriber family professor of economics over at Brown University. I love economists and their their long titles. The John Maynard Kane's chair of the Ludvig vine me's endowed seed at the University of whatever. Kane's chair at the Misi school would be an interesting mix. Anyway, here's Shbnam presenting her paper. It is called global networks risks and the US economy. You know, paper after paper, we realize the issue with the conventional macro open economy view. What is this view? This view takes us as a relatively closed economy because of the low trade shares, exports 10% of GDP, imports 14% of GDP. And that of course combines with the fact that US is governing the world in terms of dollar dominance and deep financial markets. And on top of that US has a amazing central bank as we are all here right now we know that Federal Reserve acts as a global lender of last resort when things go south. The benchmark implication of this view is that US has limited exposure to global risks. We would like to revisit the issue in terms of asking directly how sensitive the US economy to global risks once we account for full global trade, production and finance networks and really think about trades off and counterfactuals and basically revisit this issue that the fact that maybe your trade shares are low. We caught up with Shbnam after her presentation to better understand exactly what she's trying to do here. All right. So yes, we found something different because we work with networks and let me explain what that is. When you say networks again the the the traditional we first going to think about of course the trade networks. Why? Because the trade networks directly linked to supply chains right and we already realized it is those are vulnerable. I mean you know shock after shock starting with the pandemic told us that yes maybe kind of our final goods trade or just if I focus on manufacturing not that big but if I look at the supply chains value chains then US is integrated to that and then that changes the things because that means even in the aggregate number you might not see that big of exports and imports there might be indirect exposure through all those things because when you think a network you You are linked through trade. This is now where we also add to the traditional view. But you also have to think about the financing, right? I mean, so the networks to us is trade networks. Yes, you know, countries buying and selling, sectors buying and selling, firms buying and selling from each other, but also financial networks. I mean, you know, investors investing in companies in other countries, you know, the supply chains financed by different investors in other countries. And on top of that, of course, the production, right? I mean you know so a a a a product right now is assembled in one country designed in another country manufacturing in another country with parts coming from many many countries and skills and knowledge also coming from many many countries. So when you have this type of a comprehensive view of the network global network as trade production and finance then I think US becomes very vulnerable to global shocks and global risks. So you could see why this would be an important area of research for the Fed. Right. Right. And the conventional thinking has always been that the US is kind of insulated from global shocks because it's so big because the dollar is so dominant. External factors it's thought don't really affect the US economy so much right and also we don't actually export that much relatively speaking right we import. So that's the conventional view. But if per Shbnam's research, the US is in fact more exposed to global shocks than previously thought, if it's more intertwined with the network of the global economy through secondord effects, then policy makers should be aware of that. Right? Wasn't clear. This is an enormous body of work spanning, you know, several papers, hundreds of pages, all with many applications and scenarios. That is Aaron Flaugh. He's a principal economist at the Boston Fed and he's also the discussant for this particular paper. The discussant role is really interesting. Yeah, this was probably one of the most fascinating sort of dynamics which I knew existed but didn't quite appreciate how it works. So basically every presenter gets paired with an official discussant whose job is just to interpret and critique frankly the paper for a wider audience. So those are those are my my main comments. I do just want to emphasize that what SENM is doing here is policy relevant research at its finest. It's our profession working at its finest for really answering these very timely questions in ways that that authors are very close to the paper. You wrote this, you know, details and you can see in the presentations, right? They they know inside out and stuff like that. So they provide a presentation. The role really what a discussant does is sort of a essentially let me translate what the author does for the broader audience. Right? A good discussant role is really to sort of reframe the paper, pull out key takeaways, and then provide some constructive, you know, comments. But, um, sometimes things get a little awkward. Definitely awkward, but, you know, everyone is still very polite. Still very polite. Yes. But more on that after this break.

</details>

### 供应链不确定性与通货膨胀的级联效应

另一篇重要论文来自博科尼大学经济学教授**Tomaso Monichelli**，题为《供应链不确定性、能源价格与通货膨胀》（Supply Chain Uncertainty, Energy Prices and Inflation）。该研究的核心在于探讨供应链中断如何改变企业生产和定价决策的经济环境。Tomaso以两年前苏伊士运河堵塞为例，指出尽管事件本身仅持续数日，但其对运输造成的连锁影响却持续了数月，如同机场枢纽的单个航班延误能通过**级联效应**（Cascade Effect: 初始小扰动通过网络结构放大并传播）导致整个系统长时间延误。

Tomaso的研究旨在回答一个关键问题：供应链中断是通货膨胀的真实原因，还是仅仅是**需求过剩**（Excess Demand: 财政刺激等因素导致总需求超过供给能力）的表象？他的结论是，即使是看似微小的供应链中断，也可能通过能源价格等渠道产生比预期更长久的**滞后效应**（Reverberate Effect: 冲击在经济系统中持续传播和影响），从而成为通货膨胀的重要驱动因素。更重要的是，影响通胀的并非供应链冲击的规模，而是其固有的**波动性**（Volatility）和**不确定性**（Uncertainty）本身。这项研究对政策制定者具有重要意义，尤其是在理解后疫情时代通胀飙升的复杂原因方面。Tomaso强调，石油或天然气价格冲击等典型的供给冲击，在供应链处于中断状态时，其对通货膨胀的影响会被显著放大并变得更具持久性。因此，中央银行在供应链脆弱时期，应比平时对能源价格冲击采取更积极的应对措施。

<details>
<summary>Original English Source</summary>

Let's go to another paper. This one is by Tomaso Monichelli. He's a professor of economics at University Bachi and his paper is called Supply Chain Uncertainty, Energy Prices and Inflation. And it is actually about one of our favorite topics, Joe. Supply chains. No, that's right because that's exactly right. So supply chain disruptions can sort of change the state of the economy. So the environment that's our idea where firms make production and pricing decisions, right? And so the key idea is that the the state of the world in which firms operate, right? can can change underlying and so as economists we say the the state of the economy changes even starting from potentially minor events along the supply chain. how we make the example of this apparently small episode like in the sewers canal two years ago sort of a ship container shipping oil and other inputs got stuck for a few days we remember it well literally right but that was that episode sort of got resolved in a few days but I didn't have the time to show the data but then this the effect on transportation disruptions s okay along supply chains lasted for months. Okay, so the analogy here is think of a airport, okay, like a hub, okay, where a lot of flight. So now many airports function as hubs okay of many flights coming from different directions and right you can have a disruption like a single delay on a single flight in the in the in the hub but then this propagates you know along the day and then across many different flights and and amplifying the delay downstream a cascade effect. Yes. So at the heart of Tomasu's research is this sort of very important question. Are supply chain disruptions real? Are they a real thing? Or are they simply manifestations or symptoms of excess demand maybe caused by too much fiscal stimulus? Yeah. So after the pandemic, a lot of people criticized the government for handing out checks to people and businesses helping supposedly to fan inflation. But actually, if small supply chain disruptions can reverberate for longer than previously thought through energy prices or whatever, then per Tamaso's research, they can be a pretty important source of inflation. And the important thing is that it's not the size of the supply chain shock that matters. It's the actual volatility itself, the uncertainty that matters for inflation. Right? So again, I think you know, you could see why this would be of interest to policy makers. Even 5 years after the pandemic, we're still trying to figure out exactly what happened and we'll probably be researching that for years. Totally. Yes. So here in the in our research, we emphasize the interaction. So the complimentarity between shocks to let's say the price of oil. Okay. That typically central banks look at right. But they they have a typical attitude. Let's say normal times. If there are oil shocks, yes, we should monitor that those shocks don't feed are not too persistent. They don't feed onto inflation expectations and so on. But their attitude is typically let's look through. Okay, this oil price all oil prices jump around very much in markets. But here we are saying even the same original let's say oil price shocks or energy gas price shocks they can have a very different amplified effects on inflation. Okay. Depending on whether the state of supply chain is disrupted or not. Okay. So it's it's really the intera. So it's not really that we believe that we emphasize supply chain shocks. We say typical supply shocks like oil shocks or gas price shocks, right? They can get really amplified and in a very persistent way if the underlying conditions of supply chains are disruptive. So that that state of the economy should be monitored and in in those states of the world the central bank should be very very reactive way more reactive to oil shocks or energy price shocks than in periods where supply chain disruptions are minimal.

</details>

### 学术批判的艺术与研究文化的演变

在学术会议中，讨论人的角色至关重要。哈佛大学经济学教授**Ludvik Stra**作为Tomaso论文的讨论人，解释了这项工作需要投入大量时间和精力，且通常没有报酬。讨论人的风格各异，有些倾向于总结和解释论文的相关性，而另一些则可能进行尖锐的批判。Ludvik本人则力求在批判性审视与建设性反馈之间取得平衡。

Ludvik对Tomaso论文的批判性意见包括：后疫情时代的通胀飙升可能更多源于**需求过剩**（Excess Demand: 财政刺激导致边际成本曲线向上移动，进而引发瓶颈和港口拥堵），而非纯粹的供应链问题。此外，Tomaso使用**波罗的海干散货指数**（Baltic Dry Index: 衡量航运成本的代理指标）作为航运成本的衡量标准也受到了质疑，因为该指数在金融圈内常被诟病。Ludvik还对研究结果的稳健性表示担忧，特别是如果某些结论过度依赖于时间序列中的某个特定事件。

尽管面对公开质疑，Tomaso表现得相当从容。他认为，这是从经验中学习的过程，需要过滤听众的反应，汲取有益的信号。他高度赞扬Ludvik是一位杰出的宏观经济学家，并表示讨论和观众的评论都非常有价值，将有助于后续研究。Tomaso还提到，学术界正在积极讨论并努力改善研究环境，过去那种资深教授公开羞辱年轻学者的现象已基本消失，取而代之的是更加**文明研究环境**（Civilized Climate: 鼓励年轻研究者敢于冒险、从听众中学习的氛围）的建立。然而，公开讨论中仍可能出现激烈辩论，甚至“以问题形式出现的声明”。哈佛大学教授**Paul Antress**在主题演讲中也与Shbnam就全球价值链中美国角色的演变展开了健康辩论，这正是此类会议的魅力所在。

<details>
<summary>Original English Source</summary>

So that's the basic thrust of the paper and the data seemed to bear Tomaso's thesis out but things got a little awkward when it was time for the discussion. Hi I'm Ludvik Stra. I'm a professor of economics at Harvard. I'm a quantitative macroeconomist. So I try to build models that describe the macroeconomy and can be used for policy analysis and forecasting. I'm a discussant of a paper on supply chain uncertainty and energy shocks and how those two relate to the postcoid inflation episode. Right. As Lidvig puts it, being a discussant is a pretty big commitment. And we should just mention here that neither the researchers nor the discussants are getting paid for their time. They're doing this for other reasons. obviously to contribute to policy, but there's another big motivation that we'll get into in a minute. So, here's Lvig. So, not everybody has time and energy to do this. In my case, I love being at the Boston Fed and I'm close. So, so it's not a big travel to come here. And yeah, so I said yes. And you know about a month before the conference you typically receive the paper and then you spend a significant amount of time I'd say maybe half a week a week in your of your research time with the paper and trying to understand the ins and outs trying to understand the empirics the model and then hopefully give a balanced view of the paper during the discussion and from what we saw at the conference it feels like discussions can have different styles some basically summarize the paper and explain why it's relevant and others others you know maybe pick it apart very critically here's Levik talking about the discussants some tend to be more like what you just mentioned more like the latter that you know pick apart papers and kind of come across as a little bit destructive rather than constructive you know the the last discussion at the conference was a lot more constructive for example and would be you know building off the author's results and you showing them what they could do next with with the paper. Some are very very kind and just praise the results, which I I tend to I tend to try to be in somewhere in between. You know, I tend to shed some critical light on the the author's results if that, you know, is something that I think helps understand the paper, but I also want to be constructive and I want to be kind to the authors, too. So, you know, you want to kind of balance those two sides, I guess. and Ludvig did shed some critical light on Tomaso's research. Suggestions for improvement, we can say, right? Suggestions for improvement, right? That's a a a good way of putting it. So, as the economy reopened, as we had ample fiscal stimulus, and I tend to think that that means we ran up a marginal cost curve, meaning, you know, costs went up just because there was a lot of demand. And so, bottlenecks emerged, ports got clogged. And I think that alone can lead to an increase in what looks like supply chain issues even though they're not really the root cause of things. Now, I still think this paper has has a lot of merits to it, but you know, I tend to think that not all that looks like an energy shock is really truly a shock rather than just a con a consequence of of increased demand. Tomaso also used the Baltic Dry index as a proxy for shipping cost, which as anyone who has spent a bit of time on finance Twitter will tell you is an index that gets criticized a lot. Exactly. And then if if it's just one episode in that time series that's kind of responsible for some of the results, then I would worry about that. Now, I don't know if that's exactly what's going on, but I did play around a little bit and it was not as robust as as, you know, I was maybe hoping it or they were maybe hoping it to be. So, Tracy, speaking of Twitter, you know, look, both you and I are used to getting criticism, right? But even if you're used to it, I think it would be pretty uncomfortable to have your work sort of publicly criticized by one of your peers in front of a big group of peers. Yeah, I would think so, too. Although, Tomaso actually seemed pretty fine with it. No. Okay. So that that you learn learn out of experience through time right that you have to filter the reaction of the audience and get the the good and the bad signals. So first of all I had great comments very useful I both myself and my co-author are very happy the discussion was fantastic I I know him he's a fantastic researcher he's one of the best macroeconomist I admire his researchers I was very happy that he they was pleased with the with the with the paper but also the the audience had very interesting comments that know materially will be very useful for for keeping up with the research and and again sometimes you get some more aggressive comments. But you know there is a there is a sort of there there is an interesting role type of dynamics that happens in academic conferences that you have to internalize. Yeah, Tracy, I really do. I want to go to one of those workshops that you hear about where the, you know, the young the young student or the young professor, maybe someone applying for a job, they're presenting their paper and then the old professor in the back of the room sort of puts on a big show and humiliates them, bring up all these points. That is a very interesting point because Tomaso says the days of older professors publicly humiliating younger students are pretty much over. That happens in sort of a behind secret doors in a way. No, but but especially as of late the profession is discussing that a lot. Yeah. So we we we now are are becoming much more aware that the climate especially in economics much more than in other social sciences or hard sciences that the climate during seminars during presentations especially within closed door seminars might be might be sort of not conducive for for for younger researchers to actually take risks and and and and learn from the audience. So we are becoming way more mindful that it is very important to to you know to keep a to keep a civilized climate in in in research environments. Speaking of civilized climates, we should just mention that things can get pretty heated in the public discussion too, right? So this is also part of it where attendees get a chance to ask questions or often make their own points about the papers being questioned. Many many statements in the form of a question. Yeah, lots of that. And things got a little um I don't want to say combative but loud. They were loud. Things got kind of loud after a paper was presented on the idea of policy tradeoffs. So trade-offs between geopolitical risks and economic risks. Perhaps it's too early to tell. Standard models of the type that Shnam talked about without the nominal rigidities would also predict optimal uniform tariffs that are very high 20 40% range. So the current environment looks pretty good. The voice you hear is Paul Antress. He is a professor at Harvard giving the keynote address on the first day of the conference. According to this models, we are in a sweet spot. I'm not so sure. Why? Because the standard models are models that I think have features that I I think are not in line with many of the things that I see when I look at the data. his presentation, the evolving role of the United States in global value chains. It touched on some of the same areas that Shbnum had covered earlier. And the beauty of a conference like this is that she was sitting right in the audience and she was able to weigh in right then and there. You just raised a couple issues and then I then I realized maybe I wasn't clear during my presentation. I fully agree on the whole firm level and how the input output data we have is kind of this sausage. But I would disagree that we do want to make understand how the sausage made so that we can do better. Right? So the economists were fighting. Well actually I asked Shabbn about this later and here's what she said. Well actually I characterized that as a very healthy debate and little bit also you know the artifact of these conferences where you have 25 minutes to present right. So I didn't have that much time and then of course because I didn't show the parts where we use the firm level data and more you know disciplined the macro model with more you know micro identified elasticities and all that.

</details>

### 经济学研究的内在张力与政策影响路径

经济学家参与此类会议，除了希望通过研究为政策制定提供准确有用的信息外，还有一个重要动机是**同行评审与发表**（Peer Review and Publishing: 获得其他经济学家的认可，并在知名学术期刊上发表论文）。这引发了一个核心问题：在撰写对政策有用的论文与最大化在同行评审期刊上发表的机会之间，是否存在一种**核心张力**（Core Tension: 目标冲突）？

Shbnam认为，这种张力在学术界普遍存在且非常严重。学术出版往往偏爱狭窄、专业化的研究，导致经济学领域出现“孤岛效应”（Silos），例如劳动经济学家、宏观经济学家、金融经济学家之间交流甚少。然而，当研究人员与政策制定者交流时，他们会发现实际问题往往是相互关联的，需要跨学科的综合洞察力。尽管学术出版目前对这种综合性研究的价值认可不足，但Shbnam对此持乐观态度，认为当前时代正促使研究人员加强合作，共同应对复杂挑战。

波士顿联储主席**Susan Collins**全程参与了会议，她强调了理解复杂性如何改变传统思维的重要性。她指出，通过考虑包括贸易流、金融流以及跨行业和跨国家在内的网络联系，传统上更简单的模型可能低估了各类冲击可能带来的更大、更持久的影响。同样，供应链连接和不确定性的增加会放大冲击的影响。关于研究成果如何转化为政策，Susan表示，这并非简单的“渗透”（Osmosis），而是通过多种途径实现：政策制定者亲自参加会议、研究团队间的密切合作、以及她本人将经过提炼的重要思想分享给同事。最终，这些会议不仅提供了经济学知识，更揭示了学术工作与政策制定之间复杂的社会学关系，以及经济学家在影响政策和最大化发表产出之间所面临的**双重压力**（Dual Pressure: 影响政策与最大化发表产出之间的潜在冲突）。

<details>
<summary>Original English Source</summary>

Joe, all of this raises the question of why economists choose to do this in the first place. And you know, you spend a huge chunk of time writing a paper. You probably have a few research assistants that are working on it and they could be doing something else and then it gets scrutinized this very publicly. I I I maybe you felt I was I was picking on you. I I I didn't mean to do that. Now, of course, I I take your point. Let me just push back though in the sense that obviously one of the motivations is the policy aspect. Economists I think many of them want to inform policy in an accurate and useful way. That's pretty obvious. But there was also something that I didn't quite realize. Peer review and publishing. People want to be published. Yeah. Look, I get it. Believe me, I get it. Researchers, yes, they want to influence policy. Who doesn't? But they also want to get their papers rubber stamped by other economists and then published in the most prestigious academic journals. And so one thing I wondered is whether there's a tension between, you know, just from the economist perspective, is there some sort of tension between the goal of writing a paper that is actually useful for making better policy or just sort of maximizing your chances of getting into a peer-reviewed journal? Yeah, I think that is a very fair question and Shbnam talked about that too. Yes. No, this is the story of my life. So because this is this is a very serious tension and I'm hoping we will make the best use of these times now we are living in to to change this because yes unfortunately academia publishing values very narrow research and very tightly defined specialized research and that's why economists are in silos right there There are labor economists, they are macroeconomists, they are IIO economists, international economists, finance economists. And generally these groups don't talk to each other much and they just do one thing. But but when you want to do policy relevant research, you talk to policy makers and then you the minute you start talking to policy makers and spend time in policy institutions, you realize these problems don't come like that. Oh, here's a you know problem about you know labor so I need labor economy. Here's a problem about like you know financial market. There's a I mean problem about mother the problems are linked the problems are linked and economics profession actually is is capable of you know answering those problems creating solutions for those problems if you know these insights from these different sub fields come together which is you know what I try to do and I I'm hoping you know which kind of you know academic publishing you know doesn't value that much but I I am you know I'm an optimist I'm hopeful I think these are the times people now coming together writing with each other more and you know realizing this more and more so hopefully um you know we'll we'll go downward to a to a better path on this. Yeah. So as a consumer so if everything you're saying is right so that's awesome. I I I would encourage you to kind of like obviously you want to come in and give some numbers but give us like versions of the model that shut down this down. And you're telling me that real itself generates a lot of things that are not in standard models. So I I'm I'm really excited and I'd like to and and I fully agree. You can do the smoothing as little as you want. That's where the data is going to help you. You need data power, but you have to put this in a macro model. I mean otherwise you are not going to go back to inflation output tradeoff and all these policy questions. You have to put it in% agree with that. So all right, I will I will step in in here. We have a iron cage in there and I have things we'll we'll we'll put that on a on a YouTube. I'll have dinner. You know, Joe, there was in fact one major policy maker in the room along with everyone else and that is Susan Collins. That's right. And there are actually there are two prominent Susan Collins. This one is the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston and she was there the whole time sitting in the front row. Susan herself actually was an academic. She taught at Harvard and Georgetown and the University of Michigan. Right. There are lots of themes going on. I have to say that I'm struck by the the sense that understanding some of the complexities may change traditional ways of thinking about things. So that's a theme that I'm hearing. So the first paper was really if you if you account for the linkages through networks that include not only trade flows but also financial flows and you know if you and across sectors and countries not just through countries but add the sector component in. we may historically with simpler more traditional models have underestimated the potential for larger more persistent effects of different kinds of shocks. And then similarly the second paper had kind of a similar theme that when you really focus on some of the supply chain connections increases in uncertainty can make a shock have a bigger impact. So putting the different things making those connections that's complicated work. I'm really glad that we have experts who are digging in and able to explain them and present them for us and have us ask questions and try to understand them better. So Susan mentioned ideas and one thing I'm very curious about is how the ideas being presented in these papers actually filter through into policy osmosis. Right. Well, right. I'm sure I'm sure there's some of that, but also like do you think Susan is taking the most interesting paper and attaching it to an email and sending it off to Tom Barkin at the Richmond Fed and being like, "You have to read this." Yeah, I would. Hey, Tom, here's something you might find interesting. Yeah. So, there lots of different ways. So, sometimes um you know, sometimes we have the time to go to each other's conferences and it's hard, right, because we there's a lot going on. So sometimes people sometimes my colleagues will actually be sitting in and hear it from themselves. Some of their research teams are often tuning in whether in person or virtually. Our research teams talk to each other. They're very active relationships. They co-author papers. They're engaged in that way. And certainly if they're things that are really informative for me, I will share them with colleagues in a variety of different ways. Maybe not as much attach the paper. you know, we have a lot to read and to to go through. I would try to distill why I'm really interested, but you know, we're always looking for important ideas, trying to be better informed. That's something that's important to all of us. And again, thank you for joining us for the 69th conference. We're delighted to have OddLots here. So, that was the Boston Fed's research conference. Joe, it was great. But before we go, should tell people how Omar's presentation went. Oh, yeah. So, we started this episode talking to Boston Fed economist Omar Barbierro. And I feel like he was under more pressure than most because he was presenting not just in front of his peers, but in front of his actual boss. actually multiple bosses because there's Susan Collins but also Egon Zakryek. So his boss and his boss's boss. Yeah. And his was actually the last paper of the conference. I thought it went really well. Some interesting insights on that. Thank you very much. Basically what I have to say I think it's an exciting effort. Very impressive data collection and rich set of results. Tomaso I think it's a presentation was very interesting. I think the the the effort also is um is very important and great this is really cool to see I have three three quick uh okay this is this is a great paper and I fully agree with Andrea that this is actually huge work so you didn't even mention but we are also now matching piva to a larger set of uh firms ho that's a good outcome and you know I should just mention Joe we we've obviously been summarizing all these papers because we're trying to compress a day and a half of discussion into I don't know 40 60 minutes but all of these papers are available online at the Boston Fed's website totally and if you want to actually see the conference itself if this episode if if somehow this episode was not enough for you um actually the entire conference is on video so you could see all of the presentations and the discussants and so forth it's all available online but I'm so glad we went because I feel like I have a much better understanding ing of how policy actually develops, how research develops and what economists are kind of aiming for. Totally. So when we went to Boston, you know, in my mind I was thinking like we were there to learn more about economics which of course we did and there were all kinds of interesting ideas on supply chains, inflation, all the stuff we talked about. But it was also and I hadn't appreciated this. It was a sociology trip like we're learning about the sociology of how academic work works the relationship between academic work and policy and stuff which is just one of these things that of course intuitively is very important but I don't think like anyone really thinks about and when you think about like how economists could be under this sort of dual pressure of like do I want to influence policy and is there some cost if I'm focusing on maximizing total published output you could see some real interesting tensions that emerge in that process, right? It's sort of a microcosm of academia, I guess, which we got to study for a day and a half. So, I don't know. Maybe maybe next year we'll be in the room at Jackson Hole. We can hope if anyone at the Kansas City Fed is listening. All right. Uh, shall we leave it there? Let's leave it there. This has been another episode of the All Thoughts Podcast. I'm Tracy Aloway. You can follow me at Tracy Aloway. And I'm Joe Weisenthal. You can follow me at the Stalwart. Big thanks to Susan Collins and the rest of the Boston Fed for inviting us to observe and participate in their conference. And once again, all the people who took the time to chat with us. We really appreciate them. You should go to the Boston Fed's website and really check out those papers and presentations. All of it excellent. Follow our producers, Carmen Rodriguez at Carmen, Dash Bennett, who actually joined us on the trip. He's at Dashbot and Kalebrooks at Kalebrooks. For more OddLots content, go to bloomberg.com/odlots with a daily newsletter and all of our episodes. And you can chat about all of these topics 247 in our Discord, discord.gg/odlotss. And if you enjoy OddLots, if you want to send us on more sociological trips to research conferences, then please leave us a positive review on your favorite podcast platform. And remember, if you are a Bloomberg subscriber, you can listen to all of our episodes absolutely adree. All you need to do is find the Bloomberg channel on Apple Podcast and follow the instructions there. Thanks for listening.

</details>